I Am a Man
EJ Warman
For Callen-Lorde and Fiona Apple
                
I am a man. I look like a man, talk like a man. I have everything a man has. Except one thing. If you looked at me, you wouldn’t notice that it’s missing but somehow everyone can tell. They don’t need to check because they just sense it. I’m a great boyfriend, but I’m missing something that would make me the perfect boyfriend. As soon as someone realizes I don’t have it, I stop being a man in their eyes. It doesn’t make me sad, or insecure, or disappointed, it makes me painfully angry. It makes me so angry that I get dizzy and my vision goes blurry. It makes me so angry that I want to get it out physically somehow, but my body can’t physically express even a 10th of the anger I feel. I feel it behind my eyes, in my head, in my stomach, my back, my uterus. I feel it every time I suddenly realize I’m being treated much differently than the other men in the room. I feel it every time someone looks at me like I’m a confused, pathetic, girl. Like I’m a cat with its fur all spiky because I’m just so scared and weak. I feel it every time I see a thin, cis, gay man walking down the street in clothes that fit him perfectly, surrounded by women and other gays who think he’s just the coolest. I feel it every time a gay man jokes that he could never date a trans man because he only likes real men. I feel it every time I remember a guy that I hooked up with called me pretty while there was too much in my mouth for me to protest. I feel it every time a cis man does something gross to me and no one asks me if I’m ok. I feel it every time I get sad or upset and I’m told to just get over it since I want to be a man so bad. I feel it every time someone who has never once treated me like a man tells me that I shouldn’t have feelings or state my opinion because I’m a man. I feel it every time my girlfriend rolls her eyes when she sees me crying. I feel it every time I cry.
                I wish I was one of those men that just bottles everything up, never cries, never confides in anyone, never shows vulnerability, but I can’t be like that. I keep trying, but nothing changes. The anger doesn’t go anywhere. It doesn’t get let out, and it doesn’t bottle up inside of me, it becomes a part of me. Because it doesn’t get easier, it just gets harder. And it gets slower, and thicker. It feels like a sickness. It isn’t dysphoria, its constant mistreatment. It’s knowing I shouldn’t accept less, but that’s how it has to be. It’s the back section of my brain, being weighed with worries that make it hard to stand upright.
William the Conqueror's Body Burst From Being Stuffed in His Coffin and It Released a Horrible Stench 
Miriam Rigg
For Queen Matilda for all the petulant men she had to put up with.
When William won the English throne he was a tall, young man, exactly how one might picture the Duke of Normandy to be. Two decades of ruling as the King of England doesn’t do well to an aging man, and William, an already gluttonous man, had indulged in all the finest foods: lamprey, bunnies, and landfowl (it was the 11th century). Going from a strappy man to a morbidly obese man infected William with shame. William heard from someone who heard from someone else that King Philip of France compared him to a pregnant woman about to give birth. 
William, about to hit 60, decided to drop a few stones. With Slim Fast and cigarettes not at his disposal, William got on the original fad diet: liquid only, or rather liquor only. Throughout his days, William would nurse rotating goblets of wine, ale, and mead. Old Willy’s alcoholism might have survived him well if he didn’t already have difficulty riding a horse, let alone also launching a military campaign against Philip for some of his wounding remarks and French territory. 
Things hadn’t been well with Robert, the eldest boy, since William didn’t punish his other two sons for dumping a chamber pot on 26-year-old Robert’s head. One attempted coup and an exile later, Robert had allied himself with Philip, helping him hold North France against his father. In one battle, Robert unhorsed William, wounding him, and only resisted slaying him when his father’s guttural voice pleaded to him. The family matriarch, Queen Matilda had been the only thing keeping the pair at bay, and upon her death, a Sicilian kiss of death had been placed. 
Mantes was the middle point between Paris, where Philip sat the throne, and Normandy, where William still ruled as Duke. While seizing the city, William’s horse jumped into a ditch, the saddle’s pommel piercing William’s stomach. His army retreated back to the Norman town of Rouen with William. He laid in a priory on his deathbed and considered it time to confess his sins if he should have any chance of seeing the pearly gates. 
William had spent the majority of his life in power, inheriting duchy at the age of 7, and securing a kingdom before the age of 40. Naturally, to hold such power requires a level of brutality, but by many markers William’s rule was the deadliest of any English monarch that would follow him. Back in 1066, the Norman Conquest concluded at the Battle of Hastings where William shot Harold, the last Anglo-Saxon King, in the eye. The battle itself likely killed 4,000 Englishmen, whose bodies were left on the battlefield for the birds to peck away at. The 2,000 killed Normans were buried in an unmarked communal grave. 
However, William’s battle win did not lead to a welcomed reign. The replacement of an Anglo-Saxon ruler, who had reduced taxes and raised wages, by a French one, who returned to Normandy only a few months after his coronation. Rebellions rose up forcing poor old William back to England to deal with those needy peasants up North. 
As winter fell in 1069, Harold’s great nephew-in-law (all arbitrary how these lines of succession work), Edgar, who was the last male from the former royal family left alive, began to encourage rebellions from essentially anyone in Northern England who had a sword. The campaign failed pretty quickly. William paid the Danes to go back to Denmark and those that remained refused to meet William in battle. Edgar saw his future of either death or captivity at the hands of William and ran away to Scotland for refuge with his sister and her husband, King Malcolm. 
(Unfortunately, that wouldn’t work out for long and Edgar would spend most of his life on a wild goose chase with William and later his sons, each time ending in a pardon until the next dynastic strife,
but perhaps, Edgar go the last life growing old in the country in privacy and quiet, while William and his lineage were all befallen by rather gruesome deaths). 
Everyone left in the North, mostly commonfolk and a measly few rebellious aristocrats, were the ones to deal with William’s scorched earth tactics. If he couldn’t defeat them in a traditional bloody battle, he would defeat them with long-term starvation. William ordered everything to be turned to ash. Those that remained were slaughtered by his soldiers. William’s most notable accomplishment, the Doomsday Book, which was the first census of England, allowed further assertions of power with high taxation. The area scorched in the North was deemed a wasteland, the land’s taxation value decreasing 80% and up to 75% of the population had died or fled as a result of the harrying. Orderic Vitalis chronicled the Harrying of the North, writing, “I have often praised William in this book, but I can say nothing good about this brutal slaughter. God will punish him.” 
Perhaps, as William laid on his deathbed, this same thought came to him. Or wondered over to his half-brother, Odo, imprisoned for treason due to a poorly planned plot to become Pope. There was, of course, Robert, his firstborn, only miles away, but not as his deathbed due to a spat over a chamberpot, though the memory of that might’ve brought him one last chuckle. Death, the fate he had brought so many, was creeping up William, and so he began to confess. 
“I treated the native inhabitants of the kingdom with unreasonable severity, cruelly oppressed high and low, unjustly disinherited many, and caused the death of thousands by starvation and war, especially in Yorkshire. In mad fury I descended on the English of the north like a raging lion, and ordered that their homes and crops with all their equipment and furnishings should be burnt at once and their great flocks and herds of sheep and cattle slaughtered everywhere. So I chastised a great multitude of men and women with the lash of starvation and, alas! was the cruel murderer of many thousands, both young and old, of this fair people.” 
Entreated by the clergy around him to forgive those who had wronged him, William relented, and set that Odo would be freed and Robert would inherit the duchy of Normandy. He was also enticed to make a generous donation to the clergymen. To his remaining two sons: William would inherit the English crown and Henry would get a few bucks. The indifference in inheritance didn’t bode well and set England up for another war for the crown, but William wouldn’t be there to shed blood. As the bells of the priory rang for the first hour of daylight, William died commending himself to the Virgin Mary and begging for God to be merciful to him. 
Immediately after, any remaining nobles and knights left because it isn’t worth kissing up to someone who is dead. The servants that remained stole all valuables, and hurried away, leaving William’s naked dead body on the floor. 
Since virtually anyone with any royal-lined pockets had left, it fell to a common knight to make and pay for the funeral arrangements, including the conveying the body down the Seine to Caen, where William desired to be buried. When the monks met the bier, a fire broke out eating its way through town, destroying the majority of it, as if signalling a sign of William’s spiritual destination in hell. 
Whatever was left of the town and William’s weeks-old body, was eulogized by the bishops and abbots of Normandy, with Henry being the only one of his sons in attendance, though William did have plenty of daughters but they didn’t seem important to note about after their wedded commitment to a duke or count or, scariest of all, God. It was asked that if William had ever wronged anyone, he was now to be forgiven. 
Despite a request like that usually being rhetorical, a man yelled that the church was built on land stolen from his father by William, and that he would be damned if William were to be buried on his
inheritance. In an act of his penance for his father, Henry compensationally paid the man so William could be buried on the land. 
With affairs seemingly coming to an end, it was finally William’s chance to be buried. The only problem was that William had become rather bloated since his death like a curse placed on him to inflate his heaviest insecurity. Brute force, a favorite of William’s, was applied to the body by the attendants in the hopes that with enough squeezing he would fit. 
Unfortunately, by this point his body was a pimple primed for popping. His swollen bowels burst releasing an intolerable stench throughout the crowd that no censer in the world could mask. His rites were hurriedly finished, and it was a decidedly rotten finish. Still, it wasn’t the end for William’s corpse. He laid in the earth for many years until his tomb was repeatedly disturbed through the years. First, during the French War of Religions where a Calvinist mob stole his coffin for a quick buck, but when it was discovered to hold little value, his remains were scattered. Whatever was left of William was once again disturbed during the French Revolution and thrown into the River Orne. 
Nearly a millennium later, only a thigh bone remains. Far more than any William lay his broadsword to. Perhaps, it is something for him to chew on.
















Vincent Gallo’s Buffalo ‘66
Trixie Beck
to my sister, Charlotte


Vincent Gallo’s Buffalo ‘66 is a film that's truly hard to love. While lacking any likable characters and a stable plot, the movie honestly poses as a hard watch, and it is surprising that it’s amassed a cult following. Written, directed, composed, and starring Vincent Gallo, the film was heavily inspired by his own life and personal experiences. Gallo was born and raised in Buffalo, New York, where this film is set and filmed. He began his career as an actor in the early 90s, starring in various indie films. Released in 1998, Buffalo ‘66 was his directorial debut, as he went on to write, direct, and star in two other independent films, The Brown Bunny (2003) and Promises Written in Water (2010). 
 
Buffalo ‘66 follows Billy Brown, played by Gallo, having just been released from five years in prison. Through a series of overhead and moving shots, we follow Billy as he takes the bus into town, aggressively searches for a bathroom to use, and eventually kidnaps teenage Layla from a dance studio. Layla, played by Christina Ricci, is initially resistant towards Billy, but quickly becomes compliant. A short-tempered Billy explains to her that he is taking her to meet his parents, who never knew he was in jail, and needs her to pretend to be his wife. As she drives them to his parents house, it becomes clear that Layla has grown a liking to Billy, as she could easily escape but doesn’t. We meet Billy’s parents, his clearly absent mother who won’t take her eyes off the Buffalo Bills game, and his uninterested father who takes a creepy liking to Layla. The rest of the film follows Billy and Layla as they continue their night, going to a bowling alley and diner, and eventually getting a motel room for the night. Over the course of the film, more and more about Billy’s childhood and past is uncovered, as we see the framework for what made him such a terrible person. By the film’s end, the beautiful, sweet and caring Layla has become affectionate towards the cold and violent Billy.
 
As this film is based on Gallo’s childhood, it is evident that Buffalo ‘66 serves as a reflection of his mind and his personality. With the plot being about a lonely, aggressive thirty-two year old man who feels like the world has failed him, who accidentally captures the perfect victim, viewers of this film get a glimpse into the twisted mind of Gallo. Layla ends up falling in love with Billy after he kidnaps her, verbally assaults and brutally uses her for his parent’s approval. He is nothing less than cruel to her, and she is kind and falls for him anyways. Layla’s character
serves as every incel man’s dream woman, as her portrayal by Gallo proves that he views women in a sickening way. It is also crucial to note that, while Billy’s background is subtly revealed throughout the film, the only information we get about Layla is simply her name. Christina Ricci and Gallo reportedly did not get along on set, as Gallo called Ricci his “puppet” that “did what she was told”, and Ricci vowed to never work with him again. Buffalo ‘66 is not the only instance of this behavior from Gallo. His second directorial film The Brown Bunny received a great deal of backlash after its debut at Cannes Film Festival, due to a controversial sex scene between Gallo and Chloë Sevigny. In recent years, Gallo has also been under fire for sexual misconduct towards women during the audition process of his film The Policeman, which Sag-Aftra is currently investigating. This only scratches the surface of Gallo’s controversiality, as he has also received backlash for his political views, and from his continual endorsements of Donald Trump. The misogynistic nature that is evident in Gallo’s work emphasizes the negative implications of Layla’s character, and how this movie can be detrimental to women.
 
Despite being surrounded by a bleak and lackluster film, Ricci’s performance as Layla shines. The seventeen-year-old actress is one of this film's only highlights, as she was just given a lacking script and basically zero characterization, but portrays Layla profoundly. Ricci struts around the screen in an oddly out-of-place bowling alley tap dancing scene, which almost feels like a break after an hour of watching an irritable Billy run around the city tormenting people. Every time Ricci is on screen and Gallo is not, it’s like the audience can just take a breath of fresh air. Layla’s unique look, dressed in a blue dance uniform, matching blue tights, and silver tap shoes, finished off with heavy blue eye makeup, has become iconic, thanks to costume designer Alexis Scott. Another one of the film's few highlights is its unique, sometimes strange cinematography, done by Lance Acord (although Gallo has claimed most of the credit). These highlights could unfortunately not save Buffalo ‘66 though, as the screenplay, co-written by Alison Bagnall and Gallo, is nothing special. While having its few strengths, Buffalo ‘66 is an overall excruciating watch. Though it can be defined as a melodrama, romance, and indie film, to any woman who fears the abuse of a man, this is a horror movie.
Montefiorino
Liliana Green
To my family and the mountains of Northern Italy
 
The tree-covered terrain stretched far below the Italian single-car road. Above were mountains, their peaks covered by low hanging clouds. I was in the backseat of our rental car, cold from the blasting AC and dreading the summer storm supposed to hit the mountain later that afternoon. My mother, father, little sister, and I were in Northern Italy for a month, visiting my mothers relatives in the region––some in Pianorso, some in Palinago, and others in Sestola.
Montefiorino, a small Italian town, is home to the Museum of the Partisan Republic––the reason for our mini roadtrip. To get there, we had to go down one mountain and up another. The museum is in a fortified castle overlooking the region of Modena and the fortress had been a barricade for the Italian resistance against the armies of Mussolini.
I entered the first room of the museum’s 13 through a heavy wooden door, my family following behind. A projector facing towards a stone wall displayed hundreds of photos depicting the town as Fascism consumed Italy. The Partisan soldiers were mostly men and civilians, with little training compared to the armies they faced. In the photos, I began to see an eerie resemblance to my cousins in the round faces, in the thin smiles, in the curls of hair. They were from the same region, spoke the same dialect. They had been born right as Mussolini fell. 
My mother, who was fluent, helpfully translated the Italian wall texts for us. Though I am not fluent, after two weeks immersed in the mountains of Italy, my comprehension was not bad. I surprised myself by how much I was able to translate, too.
One of the glass cases displayed throughout the museum compared the Partisan uniforms and battle accessories to that of the fascists. For the Partisans, dents in the canteens and scuffs on the leather holsters showed the true struggle of a civilian army. For the fascists, the government-provided gear was regulation––a black uniform and a sleek handgun. Two rifles were displayed, one from each side.
The rifles faced each other in a stand off, frozen in time.
Other rooms took us deeper into the history of the battles fought in Montefiorino. Room six was set up to look like a forest. Guns were propped against trees, packs rested against logs. A camp awaiting the enemy.
Room ten was where the history began to speak. The personal accounts started flowing from hidden speakers. I had stepped through a stone archway into a nearly pitch black alcove. Voices of Partisan soldiers and civilians began to speak over one another in Italian. Descriptions of fires blazing in the mountains. The search for loved ones as they fled. The voices of survivors, residents not much older than some of my cousins. The way they spoke, slipping in and out of mountain dialects, sounded so similar to my cousins.
The museum, like all Italian businesses, closed in the afternoon for an hour. My father wanted to return later for another go through. My sister and I did not––this would extend our day trip significantly. Torn between annoyance and wondering, when would I be in Montefiorino again?, I expressed my hunger. We ventured out of the museum to find lunch. 
The sky was dark, the air moist: such unusual humidity was unwelcome on the mountain. Down the road, an oddly upscale restaurant was open. Thank God! Something about being in a museum for too long creates such an appetite.
The rain came down in sheets; we ordered our piatti primi.
I’ve always hated storms. The rain covered the glass windows and blurred the view of the mountains, trapping us in. Thunder boomed, lightning crashed. It was cinematic. The dramatics of storms make me anxious and, for the twenty raging minutes of it, I sat bouncing my leg under the table, only thinking about when it might clear. We were finishing off our tortelloni in butter and sage and tagliatelli in ragu with una scarpetta[1] when it finally did.
My father then made his way back up the road to the museum. I might have felt bad about not wanting to absorb more history; however, the charity shop across the street was calling my name. Set among Montefiorino’s borgos, alimentari, cafes, and small restaurants, the shop fit perfectly within the town. My mother, little sister, and I entered through the propped open glass doors. Inside it smelled slightly damp. Fine layers of dust coated hard-to-reach corners. Three folding tables stood in the middle of the first of two rooms. Atop each were precarious piles of various clothing items. A middle aged Italian woman seemed to be running it.
I began to browse the stacks. The only other customers were a clique of older women shopping around noisily. I picked up on their conversations. One of the women needed a new pair of pants for work. The others negotiated on prices, though there was not a single tag in the whole store.
In the corners of the shop were piles of narrow shoes with thin heels. They littered the floors and were stacked on top of one another. I made my way to them. Unfortunately, my feet were not Italian enough. They didn’t fit in a single pair except a large pair of knee high, brown boots. Much too big to try and shove into my already bursting suitcase.
The dresses next. I plucked two knee-lengths from the rack, imagining the possible footwear and accessories to go with. Both made it to the growing pile in my arms. In the second room were matching folding tables adorned with tchotchkes, kitchen ware, and jewelry. My little sister spent the majority of our time in this room.
A feeling of locality swept over me. I assessed what had landed in my arms, a process that I had done countless times before. I had a hard time believing that, just hours before, I’d learned about the historic battles that took place on the same mountain where I was now sorting through patterned tops. A duality of Italy. A town with a violent nationalist history. A 20-year-old American girl with an armfull of trendy, thrifted clothes. 
I walked out with six items: two blouses with swirling patterns, a white long-sleeve for fall, two knee-length summer dresses, and polka dotted shorts with the button missing. My total came out to seven euros.
I felt exhausted. Shopping, like museums, seems to inflict a drowsy, heavy fatigue on me. My stomach filled with homemade pasta and bread, my bag filled with clothes, and my head filled with history, I carried myself towards the car. It cast a long shadow on the broken up asphalt. The mountain slant caused the door to fall open, beckoning me to the comfort of the cushy seats.   
The sky had made way for late afternoon sunshine, warming the chill from the rain. We drove up the road one more time to collect my father from his dive back into the history. I got one last look at the old castle dominating the mountain. I clutched my bag of goods on my lap. Looking up from the backseat car window, the stones of the outer wall seemed to absorb the sunlight for a final time that day. I thought, I can’t wait to get back to try these clothes on. My tall father hunched into the passenger seat, my mother wound it down the zig-zag road to Sestola and away from Montefiorino.


________________


[1] An Italian phrase which refers to using a piece of bread to mop up leftover sauce on your plate. Translated it means little shoe.




WHY GIVING HEAD DOESN’T MAKE MEN GOOD IN BED
Natalie Sickling
For Boo
 
We are experiencing an epidemic of straight men who listened to Mac Miller in high school and now understand giving head to a girl to be the greatest act of feminism since the suffragettes, and it’s getting harder to ignore. It’s a tale as old as time: Men searching for enlightenment in the worship of women and accidentally finding a way to exploit it for social capital.
Two hundred years ago they were returning from the Grand Tour, having learned to make love well enough for mutual pleasure, taught by the soft hands of French women and courtesans; arriving home and taking poor Madame Bovary as their mistress, making love to her without shame, rolling in the moss, and reveling in their worldliness. Now they are drinking craft beer in Bushwick and rolling spliffs in Washington Square Park. And still, like medieval lovers, they perform the rites without understanding the ritual.
It’s not shocking that these men exist, but at a time where there is so much tired discourse around men, I found myself shocked by how gratefully we accept the appearance of effort in place of true achievement. A man can’t wear a tote bag or read on the subway without The New York Times calling it performative, and yet men who make giving head the basis for their gender politics have remained virtually unscathed.
My best guess was to attribute this social avoidance to a collective psyche that fears spooking the horse. The rotten child has come down to the dinner table and we would rather not scare him off with reminders to eat his vegetables.
Who was I to say? It was just as plausible that I was vastly overestimating the scale, projecting my own poor taste in men onto an entire generation.
I started asking around.
The first woman I spoke to, Mira, told me about her college boyfriend, a gender studies major at Bard. She explained how he was this huge advocate for female pleasure. When she asked if he’d like to go down on her, he broke down. Like to? He’d love to. Unfortunately, he wasn’t so lucky. Apparently, a few years back he developed some jaw tension from chewing tobacco, and had to retire from what he loved most. She understood.
Another, Jia, told me her boyfriend would, but said he could only do it if she shaved her bush, claiming he was allergic.
Lucy, an NYU student, was crying in the Wash fountain when I approached. She told me about a rapper she dated who referenced being a ‘munch’ in nearly every song.
Three months in she asked why he never gave head.
“Don’t I?” he earnestly asked.
She told him no.
“I never heard anyone complaining,” he said, unzipping his own jeans.
Another one of Lucy’s exes stopped giving her head when she went on Prozac.
“He told me it would be too hard for him, psychologically, to give head knowing I wouldn’t be able to finish. He was trying to bond with his shadow self and thought it would be destructive to his work.” She went off Prozac later that week.
“He couldn’t make me finish either way, but it was finals week and honestly it was better for both of us if he thought he could.”
I held her hand and together we deleted her Hinge.
In the age of participation trophies, no one wants to discourage effort.
One woman told me, “If they’re down there less than a minute, I don’t bother faking it. If they make it over a minute, I throw them a bone.” It turns out every man with a tongue and two minutes of free time expects congratulations for his bravery.
One anonymous woman told me she had received good head, glancing behind her shoulder while she spoke, “but the really good ones… you can't trust them.” And with that she was gone.
Against my better judgement, I asked a man about it. He told me about a one size fits all method he found on Reddit.
“I guess you could say I hacked the female body,” and when it couldn’t get any worse he winked.
 
 
 






My Dziadzia, or my Mother’s Father
Hanna Ignaciuk
To Piya,
Thank you for the streams of never-ending critiques. For believing, reminding me that I am capable of more. You have been my guide on this journey towards finding my own voice.
It was a warm Moroccan evening, the air was still, and everything seemed so peaceful. I was sitting with my mom on a terrace, resting after dinner and listening to the sounds of cicadas. We were talking about my ex-boyfriend, my father and the complexities of love. I don’t remember how we got there exactly. Maybe my mom just needed to get it off her chest, or she felt I was old enough. All of a sudden, the conversation topic changed, and we were talking about my late grandfather.
                Dziadzia was my absolute hero, the smartest man in the room, with the most magnetic personality. I remember the name-day parties he would throw every year. Last Saturday of July, one hundred and fifty people gathered to celebrate just him. Making his speech, he would always put me on the spot, and when the party started, he would save me his first dance. I was the apple of his eye; he loved me so much that all his friends were forced to admire me and welcome me everywhere he wished to take me. I was sitting with him through dinners, during football games at the stadium, and even police encounters when he was being served his speeding tickets. Whenever I called, he asked me, “How much is this going to cost?” and got me whatever I wanted. I had my own room in his house, with Winnie the Pooh sheets, and a small bathtub for a little girl. When my parents built their own summer house, my grandpa got me the biggest trampoline and a swing to keep me with him. Every year, he and Grandma would take me on holidays. I was a daughter he was finally ready for and had time to spend with.
                When I was seventeen, COVID was slowly ending, and the world was opening up again. My parents went on holiday with my brothers, and I decided to travel with my grandparents. We went to the same place, which they have been taking me to since I was born. Everything was familiar and well known. It was our safe environment. I could walk through the hotel with my eyes closed. I knew everyone, and everyone knew me. The halls, rooms, and restaurant haven’t changed for years. We were the only different thing that had changed.
                At dinners, I had to walk with two plates from a salad buffet. I walked my Dziadzia to the restroom when needed and always poured water at a table. I had to hold his hand when walking to the room; he was too scared to get lost, and I was too afraid to let him go. His hands were shaking, and I pretended not to notice when the food fell off his fork straight into his shirt. He sat in the chair right next to the window, trying to catch a glimpse of me on the slopes all day, even though I was on the other side of the mountain. On the drive back to Poland, he observed the road from the passenger seat, stressing that he could not remember the route he had taken a million times before.
                When he was fighting COVID, he got infected in that Austrian hotel, he would often call me from the hospital, muttering sentences I could not understand. He screamed on the phone, asking me to hide so that I won’t let them catch me. I was trying to figure out where he got the mad dogs that supposedly were after me. I didn't know what to say, cause in his head the danger was real. Everyone kept saying he was getting out on Thursday, but I knew the dogs chasing me were the last thing we'd ever discuss. I treated him as a crazy person, knowing that in his delusions, he wanted to save me, and blamed him for not fighting more.
                The day he passed away, I woke up at 6:00 in the morning feeling nauseated. Ten minutes later, my masked, ill from COVID mom entered my room. She looked at me with her wet brown eyes, and the tears started slowly running down my cheeks. My father was standing next to her, and he broke the silence saying, “Mom wants to tell you something.” She didn’t have to tell me. I’m not even sure if I’ve heard her saying anything, and I definitely don’t remember them leaving the room. A mountain of stones crushed my chest. I was lying in bed with a heavy load pressing me into the mattress. Even with the heavy weight, I could still breathe and squeeze a little tear. I was calm, but powerless. It took me an hour to lift; I had to move each stone at a time to finally press myself up. I looked into the mirror, put on some black sweatpants and went to school to write my math re-sit exam. In that moment, the only thing that seemed reasonable to me was to live my life like he would want me to live.
                Sitting on that Moroccan terrace almost three years after my grandma signed the discontinuation of life support, my mom started talking about her dad. Before that evening, she would only say “I miss my dad,” or “He would have been so proud of you,” or “He loved you so much.” This time it was different. She took a breath, as if she was preparing herself to crash my world, or hers, or ours.
“Your grandpa was a severe alcoholic; he could bring himself to the state of delirium.”
The sentence and the look on her face ingrained themselves in my memory. I don’t remember him drinking, ever. He would fill my grandma's wine cellar and never touch the glass. Is that why he never drank? I asked all these questions; I didn’t want my mom to know that I already knew about his problems, that I’d overheard her talking to my grandma when I was about fifteen years old. I knew it was not his heart that failed, but the uneasy past that killed him. I was supposed to never learn. I thought I knew everything, but that wasn’t even a percentage of the story. That warm evening, my mom was breaking promises she had made to both the dead and the living. She gave a word to never tell, to not put my grandpa in a bad light, and to destroy the fairytale he created around our lives.
That night, my mom crashed her world, leaving mine at peace yet slightly disturbed. The fairytale was a condition for my Dziadzia to ever get to know me. Two weeks before my birth, he went on his drinking binge when the two of them, or three of us, were at his countryside house. I can imagine my heavily pregnant mom hearing the noises in the living room at night. She probably rushed out of her bedroom wearing a loose, flowery night gown, worried for his life and angry with hers. I can’t picture him lying on the floor in a state of delirium with alcoholic heart palpitations. My imagination is incapable of constructing a visualization of my grandpa being sick to the core from the poison he took himself.
I see my mother rushing to the hospital with him, I see her helpless, worried face, with angry eyes full of blame. The day after this nightmarish night, she gave him an ultimatum. I imagine her at his bedside, standing up for herself for the first time in years. She had the strength to take power over him because it wasn’t about them anymore. She could live with the sick and abusive father that fate brought upon her, but she couldn’t bring a baby into that world of hers. She gave him a choice of disulfiram implantation or never getting to meet me. I imagine them in that hospital room. She was taking charge of her own life, forcing him to live and be the way she always wanted him to be. He is trying to negotiate, using his international trade experience to turn a family dispute into a bargaining tool, and attempting to evoke guilt in her for all the money and pleasures he has ever given her. Perhaps at one point she even bent, maybe she looked down at her huge stomach, and looked back at him with fighting fire in her eyes. I don’t know if it was a calm conversation or a real-life Armageddon with third parties involved. I can’t even tell which side my grandma was on. I imagine her wanting to free herself from his problems, while always taking the side of her husband. I know that my father doesn’t know about any of this. I know that my mother was a lioness who fought that war alone.
My grandpa was the first one there to see me on the day I was born. My whole life, I’ve been hearing the story of how nervous he was riding that elevator in Damian’s hospital to see me. He was still working back then, so I can imagine him wearing a perfectly ironed shirt, a red tie, and a well-fitted suit. It was a warm August Monday morning that he reminisced about for many years after that.
I went through life thinking that all the gifts, pleasures and support he gives me are coming from his love and purity. I felt that I was lucky enough to be born into his family, to be a granddaughter of the most incredible man alive. In Morocco, my mom opened herself up to the sounds of cicadas. She didn’t take away his credit; he still was the best grandpa I could ask for. What I saw was the way that my luck was her victory in the war she fought for me. That my dreamlike childhood was an illusion my mom made into a reality.
































The Creatures
Fincher Douma Wahlen 
To Maria Hernandez Park


I want to make it clear that no one has asked me this question lately, but if someone did wish to inquire about my hobbies, I would say, first and formally, “Sitting in the park.” To the closed minded, it may not sound like an activity, merely a location, to which I’d rebuke and say it’s a whole ecosystem. If you go around the room and say what you did over the summer, and the kid sitting next to you says he went to Australia, no one is arguing that’s only the location. And just like Australia, my park has some creatures.
A few months ago, a man approached me and asked me for a cigarette.  As I handed it over because I am bad at saying “No,” he asked me if I liked comic books. To be fair, he could’ve asked me if I liked anything, and my answer would’ve likely been the same.
   “Not really.”
This offended him.
   “You hurt my feelings,” he said.
He then showed me what was in his black plastic bag– four copies of Avatar: The Last Airbender.
I said “Nice,” assuming that would be the end of it, but he went on, telling me about how he doesn’t know how to read. He asked me if I wanted a copy.
“I’m alright… at least you can look at the pictures in those.”
He pulled out another book, Legend of Zelda. This one was just words. He told me he wanted me to have it. Again, I insisted he should keep it.
“No.”
He told me that when someone gives him something, he gives them something back.
                Over the summer I had a little routine of going to the park to drink my coffee. It was around 8am when I sat down this day, near a flock of pigeons. Another man, this one younger and scruffier and clearly drunk, asked if he could sit at the bench next to me. I nodded because that felt like the only thing I could do.
                “If you were a pigeon, what kind would you be?” He asked me.
                “I didn’t know there were different kinds.”
After a pause he repeated himself.
                “So which pigeon would you be?”
I pointed at one, rounder than the rest with white speckles on its wings. He agreed and then introduced himself as Carl. He reached out his hand to shake mine and I very hesitantly obliged. He told me he was a Capricorn, and asked for a cigarette. I told him it was my last one.
                “Are you sure?”
I said yes and used it as an excuse to move.
                My friend Zari and I met at a park near her the other day. As we were getting into some very juicy gossip, we were interrupted. A girl, middle-school aged, approached us with a friend who looked like she didn’t want to be there.
“Could I ask you guys a question?”
We said sure.
                “Should men wear sports bras?”
                “If they want to,” Zari said. This was probably the correct response, but not the one they were looking for, as she asked again.
                “But should they?”
                “Why do you ask?” asked Zari.
The girl told us how she believes there should be contradictions between men and women.
                “Why do you think–” Zari tried to understand.
                “I think we should make them.” I interrupted.
The girl explained how she thinks men and women are different and in a very convoluted way, her transphobia.
                “Men should have to wear sports bras.” I replied, again.
The girl said thank you and moved on to the next bench and Zari said she didn't think they knew what the word “contradiction” meant.
























































A Mirror To My Body, Reflects the Tree
Lakshita Sethi
to naked trees, and an ever-changing spirit
 
I have been fascinated by the nakedness of trees lately.
 
People say that trees look depressing in winter, but I think they are beautiful. How could anyone not? To love is to love unconditionally, and that means through it all. Through storm and light. Within and throughout all seasons, not just bloom.
 
I was on the phone with [REDACTED] a few days ago, sitting on my bed and looking out my cherished window. My apartment building’s backyard has a lot of foliage, but one tree in particular, overtakes the rest. I watch it all the time, as I was at that moment. It had snowed the night before, and I said “the view is so wonderful today.” She asked to see, and was immediately concerned: “the trees look sad, and anyone who finds joy in looking at them in that stage, is too, sad.” 


But why? Beauty, just like love (should be), is unequivocal, isn't it? I have seen this one specific tree through three seasons now.
 
Summer, when I just moved in—it was green, and beautiful.
Autumn, as the months went by—it was orange, and beautiful.
Winter, as the tide blew over—it was barren, and beautiful.
 
The trees change—they grow, they shed, and they grow again. It is a cycle. They are still always trees. There is beauty in birth and beauty in change. Or, there should be. Why do people pick and choose seasons where they love, where they see beauty—they harbor fascination with the pink cherry blossoms, dismiss the bones of elms in blue winters—and dedicate months to love and then months to turn the love into pity and disgust. Why do they let the beauty—that was just there—become unfindable?
 
“No one should think that’s beautiful.” It’s funny, because a few people have seen me through many grey spaces—the darkest of shades, and then the lighter, and they have been by my side always, but tended to only notice the black and white, even then. Even now.
 
I look at the trees, and think they are beautiful. Even without leaves. Even when they look a little bit sad.
 
Perhaps I am drawn to the naked trees, because of how I have felt like them before. Season by season, emotion by emotion, change by change. Vulnerable in existence. The joy in summer, the anxiety of fall, and the loss of winter. A repeat, a mishap, a mixture of these, sometimes an absence of all. I understand sadness and I understand pain—I have a second sense for it. Even though I have grown and changed myself, become better by miles—the crux of it still remains within my soul, and I think it always will, as a memoir to my old self.
 
For a long time, I held on to it tightly—as if it was the only thing that made the struggle worthy. And then came resentment. I wanted it gone—I wanted it to disappear from my vision, just as I used to wish for myself. Now, I am indifferent. It exists, and I exist, and it is a symbol of my resilience, beyond anything else. And in this bold reclamation, I feel my connection to the tree in my backyard. To the tree on the street over. To the tree in the next Borough. To all the trees, everywhere, right now.


I grew up in a place that only saw one season- summer. Just the barest glimpse of winter, and we would be right back to the heat. As years passed, our climate changed, albeit with human intervention. The winter would get longer, but the summer would get worse, too. I think I had tuned myself to this strange weather; temperature ticking an erratic, uncomfortable melody through the broken strings on the instrument of my existence. I was stuck—miserable and so, so, unappreciative. I do not blame myself for this. It is hard to see the beauty in life, when one is buried so deep in misery. But I realized that, as I got better, as I became alive again, I started noticing beauty more and more.
 
Now I notice beauty in everything, because I see nature everywhere, and so I see it all the time. I see a tree, every day, as I wake and as I sleep. I see real seasons, for the first time, through it. It makes me wonder, can humans not be the same? Can I, not be the same?
 
“Everything eats and is eaten. Time is fed.” - Adrianne Lenker
 
Our time feeds on change, on the process of becoming and unbecoming. My tree is consumed by it, dropping its protective coat of leaves, regrowing them, doing this again and again. I, too, have gone through this cycle of loss and renewal—and just as the tree will repeat itself next year, I am sure that I will too. But in different ways. No leaves grow back the exact same as their predecessors, and neither will any part of me. There is always more to learn, always more beauty to find.


I want to surrender to this inevitability. Everything is both giving and taking, both consuming and being consumed. The past version of me was eaten by time, but in doing so, it nourished the person I am now.
 
There is so much beauty, but there is also so much pain, and the two sides overlap with one another. This has been true for all of time. The world is simultaneously harsh and lovely, rugged and soft. The bark of the tree is painful for a human to rest against. But lichen builds its home there. Beavers strip and eat its dead pieces.


There is no place for black and white, or even grey. I argue that everything is multicolored. Joy and pain coexist, growth and decay coexist, my own suffering and flourishing coexist—the understanding that the cycle always continues, that balance is always restored—it makes me feel at peace. I do think humans, and I, can be the same as the trees. After all, haven't we all been naked at some point in time?
I recognize it. I just need to give myself the same grace. Nature is indifferent to circumstance. The tree sheds and regrows, standing tall the whole time. No resistance. And in that, great resilience, I will grow my own—if I can love the tree throughout all of its seasons, then I must be capable of loving myself through all of my seasons too. My seasons have not yet built a perfect pattern, but they are starting too. It feels comforting. It feels like growing up. It feels like being awake and alive. 
I watch my tree, and it watches me. Come spring, it will blossom, and it will bring me shade again.
 
I wonder what it will see in me?